Now what about the styling.
What about these buttons now for these buttons.
You might notice that you now have a strange behavior.
If you wrote it back to portrait mode all here on Android on the other hand if we change something and
undo that just so that the app restarts and we start in portrait mode you'll see it looks good.
But now if we go to landscape mode it looks bad again.
So basically the width of our buttons gets locked in when the app starts and doesn't adjust when our
screen size changes and of course it changes when we rotate the device because width and height get
swapped.
So we have more with the weight to if we're in landscape mode than we have in portrait mode.
The problem is that currently on the start game screen when we set the width of our buttons which we
do down there we use dimensions get and this and that's very important to keep in mind this is only
calculated when your app starts.
So when the app starts for the first time this has a look at the available width and if it starts in
portrait mode.
That's the portrait mode with if it starts in landscape mode it's the landscape mode with and it locks
this in and when you then rotate the device and if you then rotate the device this doesn't recalculate.
Now of course you would want us to recalculate and there is a simple fix for that.
If you have a width or height anything you get from dimensions which should respect orientation changes.
So which should recalculate when the orientation changes then you should not use dimensions with down
there in your stall sheet but instead you need to manage though the width or whatever property it is
that can change dynamically and that should re render the UI when it changes with state.
So here in the start game string we already half use state.
We can now also manage our button with your set button with with use state and initialized as two dimensions
get window with divided by four which is the default.
I started with.
Now you can set up a listener here on dimensions instead of using get by calling add event listener
and listen to the change event which fires whenever you dimensions change which typically is the case
when the user rotates the device.
So here we can set up a function Update layout for example which is a function which I call set button
width and we'll set it again to my width year but do dimensions with will be different based on the
width of the screen.
When we rotated and its dysfunction which I want to call here so it's update layout which I want to
call here without parentheses here because we just want to point at this function.
So that's called for us when New Dimensions change and this will make sure that this read runs whenever
our dimensions changed and therefore this component will be rendered.
Now we just have to make sure we use that dynamically recalculated button with state here.
We can do this by using inline styles instead of histology to object.
Now if you had other styles set up for the button which do not depend on the dimensions then you could
leave them here in the style sheet of course.
In this case I don't have that that I'll just call this out and you could then merged that with some
inline styles here since we have no default our styles.
I'll just replace this style sheet object we're pointing at with the inline style object where I said
with equal to button with and do the same of course for my second button with dead.
We now have styling that changes whenever we rotate the device.
So if we save this you'll see this now looks good no matter how we rotate.
This all is on Android because this gets re rendered.
Now one important note here though right now at the moment I'm setting up a bunch of event listeners
here.
I always add a new event listener whenever it is component rewording reminders and that's not what I
want to do.
And we can use use a fact which has all the built into react and which you should be aware of to have
code that we run whenever our component renders.
So now I can use use a fact here at the function which I want to run on every render is a function which
in the end creates does update layout function here and adds My event listener.
So I'll cut this and added here in use affect function and if we then return something here and use
effect that's our clean up function which runs right before use effect runs in there.
I want to clean up my listener because here I can then call dimensions remove imminent event listener
change for update layout.
So now we cleaned us up and set up a new one when our component renders clean up the old one set up
a new one and therefore we always only have one running event listener.
If we do it like this that's simply cleaner and therefore if we now safeties and we go back we have
the same behavior as before but now in a clean way by utilizing use state and use effect and most importantly
the event listening capabilities off the dimensions API which allow us to not only set dimensions once
but recalculate them when they change.